Adds initial draft of 3DTILES_metadata (#431)
CesiumGS/3d-tiles: extensions/3DTILES_metadata/README.md

# 3DTILES_metadata Extension

## Version

Version: **Version 0.0.0**
Revision Date: November 6, 2020.

## Contributors

Cesium

## Status

Draft (version 0.0.0)

## Overview

> This extension to 3D Tiles enables the declaration of metadata classes and the assignment of metadata to the tileset. Metadata classes are declared and assigned based on the [Cesium 3D Metadata Specification](https://github.com/CesiumGS/3d-tiles/tree/3d-metadata-spec/specification/Metadata). Metadata may also be assigned to layers using [3DTILES_layers](https://github.com/CesiumGS/3d-tiles/tree/3DTILES_layers/extensions/3DTILES_layers). The following diagrams illustrates how these extensions are connected:

Reviewer: Just an updated reminder: on Friday we'll probably merge `3d-metadata-spec -> 3d-tiles-next`

![3DTILES_metadata Spec Map](figures/spec_map.jpg)

## Concepts

### Metadata

Metadata refers to application specific information. It can be associated with different components of 3D Tiles: tileset, layers and tiles.

#### Classes

Classes serve as the templates for the metadata objects - they provide a list of properties and the type information for those properties. For example, a tileset containing different layers of 3D data might create classes for each type:

```javascript
"classes": {
  "DatasetClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...

>     }

Reviewer 2: `DatasetClass` was removed below and should probably be removed here too.

  },
  "PhotogrammetryClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  },
  "BIMClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  },
  "PointCloudClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  }
}
```

This extension uses the classes in compliance with the [Cesium 3D Metadata Specification](https://github.com/CesiumGS/3d-tiles/tree/3d-metadata-spec/specification/Metadata#classes).

#### Properties

Each class provides a list of properties. A property has a `type` and, for the array types, it may include a `componentType` and a `componentCount`. Additionally, a property may be designated as `optional`, and if so, a `default` value for the property may be provided to apply to all instances of the class that do not set a value for the property. To learn more about properties, refer to the [Cesium 3D Metadata Specification](https://github.com/CesiumGS/3d-tiles/tree/3d-metadata-spec/specification/Metadata#classes).

> ```javascript

Reviewer: In the example could we include an example of at least one optional property?

"classes": {
  "PhotogrammetryClass": {
    "properties": {
      "sensorVersion": {
        "type": "STRING"
      }
    }
  },
  "BIMClass": {
    "properties": {
      "modelAuthor": {
        "type": "STRING"
      }
    }
  },
  "PointCloudClass": {
    "properties": {
      "scanner": {
        "type": "STRING"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Tileset Metadata

The tileset metadata object may specify a `name` and `description` to display the information in a user interface. The tileset metadata object may also conform to a `class` and assign values to the `properties` defined by the selected class. The tileset object must use the [single instance shorthand syntax](https://github.com/CesiumGS/3d-tiles/tree/3d-metadata-spec/specification/Metadata#single-intance-shorthand) to assign values to its properties.

```javascript
"extensions": {
  "3DTILES_metadata": {
    "classes": {
      "dataset": {
        "properties": {
          "author": {
            "type": "STRING"
          }
        }
      }
    },
    "tileset": {
      "class": "dataset",
      "properties": {
        "author": "Cesium"
      }
    }
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a bit more variation to the example, `dataset` is a bit generic and it would be nice to see multiple different types of properties.

> # 3DTILES_metadata Extension

Reviewer: Put the version number in this top level section instead of in the Status section, to be consistent with the main 3D Tiles specification. Something like:

**Version 0.0.0** November 6, 2020

Author: I added a little more format to this:

```
Version: **Version 0.0.0**
Revision Date: November 6, 2020.
```

> # 3DTILES_metadata Extension

Reviewer: Is this document still a work-in-progress? I see examples with namespaces but no documentation explaining it.

Author: Examples have been updated to not use namespaces or enums.

## Contributors

Cesium

## Status

Draft (version 0.0.0)

## Overview

This extension to 3D Tiles enables the declaration of metadata classes and the assignment of metadata to the tileset. Metadata may also be assigned to layers using [3DTILES_layers]().

## Concepts

### Metadata

> Metadata refers to information about the content of the tileset - it may be applicable to different components of 3D Tiles: tileset, layers and tiles.

Reviewer: I would avoid using the word "content" since that means something specific in 3D tiles.

Maybe something along the lines of "Metadata refers to additional information attached to parts of a tileset"?

#### Classes

Classes serve as the templates for the metadata objects - they provide a list of properties and the type information for those properties. For example, a tileset containing different layers of 3D data might create classes for each type:

```javascript
"classes": {
  "DatasetClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  },
  "PhotogrammetryClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  },
  "BIMClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  },
  "PointCloudClass": {
    "properties": {
      //...
    }
  }
}
```

> This extensions uses the classes in compliance with the [Cesium 3D Metadata Specification]().

Reviewer: Leaving a reminder here to eventually update these links to point to the right section of the metadata spec.

The spec will live in `3d-tiles/specification/Metadata/README.md` though it's probably best to wait until we finalize section headings before hyperlinking.

#### Properties

> Each class provides a list of properties. A property has a `type` and, for the applicable types,, it may include a `componentType` and a `componentCount`. Additionally, a property may be designated as `optional`, and if so, a `defaultValue` for the property may be provided to apply to all instances of the class that do not set a value for the property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each class provides a list of properties. A property has a `type` and, for array types, it may include a `componentType` and a `componentCount`. Additionally, a property may be designated as `optional`, and if so, a `defaultValue` for the property may be provided to apply to all instances of the class that do not set a value for the property.
```

> Each class provides a list of properties. A property has a `type` and, for the applicable types,, it may include a `componentType` and a `componentCount`. Additionally, a property may be designated as `optional`, and if so, a `defaultValue` for the property may be provided to apply to all instances of the class that do not set a value for the property.

Reviewer: If we're going to give this brief overview, I would be more upfront about "for the full specification of class properties, see [link to metadata spec])

Author: An idea from discussion with @ptrgags is to include a bullet point of use cases here to show the variety of properties

```javascript
"classes": {
  "PhotogrammetryClass": {
    "properties": {
      "sensorVersion": {

>         "type": "string",

Reviewer: the `type` property should be uppercase, `STRING` not `string`.

        "optional": false
      }
    }
  },
  "BIMClass": {
    "properties": {
      "modelAuthor": {
        "type": "string",
        "optional": false
      }
    }
  },
  "PointCloudClass": {
    "properties": {
      "scanner": {
        "type": "string",
        "optional": false
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> This extensions uses the classes in compliance with the [Cesium 3D Metadata Specification]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extensions uses the class properties in compliance with the [Cesium 3D Metadata Specification]().
```

                "Name": {
                  "type": "STRING"
                },
                "Color": {
                  "type": "ARRAY",
                  "componentType": "UINT8",
                  "componentCount": 3
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      },
      "metadata": {
        "tileset": {
          "name": "Dataset",
          "class": "_WFF_DATASET",
          "properties": {
            "wff_version": "1.0",
            "runtime_enabled": true,
            "geometry_model": "BARE_EARTH",
            "content_type": "MESH",
            "capture_platform": "SATELLITE",
            "capture_sensor": "ELECTRO_OPTICAL",
            "provider": "Maxar",
            "id": "2e7444d7-e816-48c6-8786-c24ab354422e",
            "created": "2020-10-05T13:46:46.672632Z",
            "semantic": "_WFF_DATASET",
            "featureClasses": ["NDVI", "LULC"]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "geometricError": 500,
  "root": {
    "boundingVolume": {
      "region": [-1.2419, 0.7395, -1.2415, 0.7396, 0, 20.4]
    },
    "geometricError": 500,
    "refine": "REPLACE",
    "content": {
      "uri": "content.gltf"
    }
  }
}

```

> ## Property Reference

Reviewer: What's this section for?

Author: Since we're no longer planning on adding the schema in Markdown, I have removed this.
